So some standards and definitions
before we dive into screen readers.
So, accessibility isn't just a feeling,
there are standards and
guidelines that we can benefit from.
And they're really a starting point, but
they are very important in the world of
accessibility, starting with WCAG, or
the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines,
they are a standard set of criteria for
measuring accessibility.
Some of these rules can be automated,
which we'll see today, but
a lot of them require human review.
So, the current version of WCAG is 2.2,
there is a looming version
3.0 that aims to kind of
revolutionize how WCAG is structured,
how it works, it is very far out
on the horizon, I would say.
There isn't a lot of consensus among
people that it's anywhere near ready, so
focus on 2.2, [LAUGH], and
I think the most important aspect of
WCA of that is the color contrast part.
I think people are very excited about a
new algorithm for color contrast testing,
but we're still on 2.2, so that's
the standard you should aim for, and
it's backwards compatible for
the most part.
One really cool thing about WCAG is that
it's developed in the open on GitHub, so
you can go and read how people
are making decisions about it,
what research has gone into it.
You could go and ask a question if
you didn't understand something.
I mean, just to have it developed
in the open is really incredible,
and so that's a resource that I reference
quite often when I'm trying to understand
a certain criterion.
So, another acronym, this one we will
cover much more fully today is ARIA,
stands for
Accessible Rich Internet Applications.
And this is a specification that includes
a standard set of role states and
properties that plum accessibility
information through your web pages.
So, these are actual attributes that
you would put into your markup.
It's a bit more of an advanced tool,
I would say, so
it's not the first thing you should reach
for, but there are some concepts that do
apply to base HTML that we will
definitely get into [LAUGH].
The current version of ARIA is 1.2, and it
is also developed in the open on GitHub.
So, this one I would definitely say I
have open in a tab quite often to go and
read up on what's going on
with this one attribute.
You might even be able to learn about
browser support or assistive technology
support for a certain thing, yeah,
it's really, really cool to be on GitHub.
There are other similar documents from the
W3C who puts out ARIA and WCAG, there's
one called ARIA in HTML, and another one
called Using ARIA that are pretty great.
These are more informational
documents where
the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
is what we call normative,
that means that it's clear requirements,
whereas some things that
are non-normative mean that they're
informational, like tutorials.
That's not something that you
would point to in a court setting.
Whereas WCAG, which is codified into a lot
of laws is normative it is something
that is like legally required when
you're in that type of environment.
So these terms and these standards when
I got into accessibility, they were
all Greek to me, I just didn't understand
what the point was, what these were.
And I just wanna expose you to them if
they're new and just let them soak in,
but it's not stuff you necessarily
need to understand right now.
Just know that these things exist,
you can always reference this
information later as well.
We do have one more bullet point here,
it's a bit of a just fun tip, is that
A11Y is a numeronym, it is a word where
you take the letters in the middle and
replace them with numbers, so A11Y,
there are 11 letters between A and Y.
There's another numeronym
internationalization or, I18N,
there's a number of those.
Ironically, people in accessibility and
outside of it don't think that it's
a very accessible term, But
it's something that we use nonetheless,
especially in Twitter historically,
I mean, if you have to type it a lot and
you're short on characters,
it's pretty easy to reach for.
I mostly mention it just so that you know
what it is, you know what it stands for.
You don't have to use it, just yeah,
kind of some fun accessibility trivia.